---
layout: post
title: Custom Xcode Header Comment
date: 2020-01-20 15:58:00
comments: true
disqus_category_id: CustomXcodeHeaderComment
categories: [Xcode, Text Macros]
tags: [IDETemplateMacros]
---

Although Xcode default header might be good enough for some case, but sometimes, we might want to define our own `Header Comment` for our project.

For example, if you are in a project team, then the `Created by xxx ` is not really helpful, since other team member might do some changes for this file in the later. And this author means nothing 😜. OR you might want to define your own `Copyright` for the project / company.

In these cases, we might want to define our own `Header Comment`.

By researching, Apple have this [Text Macros](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/9.0/index.html?localePath=en.lproj#/dev91a7a31fc) things which could help us to do this.

## Text Macros

> Text macros are symbols that are expanded in-place to the specified text. They are used in files and other places in Xcode, such as the header text for a new file or the project name. You can customize existing macros and add your own macros in a project, for all users of a project, or for all of Xcode.

For adding this file, we need a `IDETemplateMacros.plist` file, which could be generated by:

- New File
- Under `Resources`, select `Property List` and name the file as `IDETemplateMacros.plist`

After adding it, the next step is changing its content. By open it with source code, it is easily to be replaced like ⬇️

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
	<key>FILEHEADER</key>
	<string>
//  ___FILENAME___
//  ___PACKAGENAME___
//
//  Created by "Your Name" on ___DATE___.
//  ___COPYRIGHT___
//
    </string>
</dict>
</plist>
```

It is easily to test it by just adding a new file into the project. It should be able to see ~

By putting it to different places, it will be applied to different group, you could simply check this list:

> - Project user data: <ProjectName>.xcodeproj/xcuserdata/[username].xcuserdatad/IDETemplateMacros.plist.
> - Project shared data: <ProjectName>.xcodeproj/xcshareddata/IDETemplateMacros.plist
> - Workspace user data: <WorkspaceName>.xcworkspace/xcuserdata/[username].xcuserdatad/IDETemplateMacros.plist.
> - Workspace shared data: <WorkspaceName>.xcworkspace/xcshareddata/IDETemplateMacros.plist.
> - User Xcode data: ~/Library/Developer/Xcode/UserData/IDETemplateMacros.plist.

For more complicated, such as: change date format OR change copyright. [Here](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/9.0/index.html?localePath=en.lproj#/dev7fe737ce0) is a guide for text macros ~ 🎉

#### Reference

<https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/9.0/index.html?localePath=en.lproj#/dev91a7a31fc>

<https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/9.0/index.html?localePath=en.lproj#/dev7fe737ce0>